- [Gordon's Voiceover]
Tonight on Hotel Hell,
in Northern California,
near Sacramento, a 200 year old hotel.
- This is the actual bed that
President Grant slept in.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] -is
about to become history.
- Look at the mould on that.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] Three buddies
decided to buy the business.
- It's like dumb and dumber and dumbest.
Are you guys really the fucking owners?
- True story.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] In
fact they're so busy drinking.
- Were you drunk?
- Yes.
- Drink free from me.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] Dancing.
- They really like to give lap dances.
- Lap dance.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] -and having fun,
that the hotel and the guests.
- Do we ask you to check in for the room
- [Gordon's Voiceover] - are neglected.
If I don't do something soon,
the town will lose its most
important historic building
to a bunch of frat boys.
(bar chatter)
- Boys and girls.
(electric music)
Surrounded by the stunning
vineyards of the Sierra,
Nevada foothills is Murphy's California,
a picturesque destination for
wine enthusiasts and tourists.
This historic town has been home
to Murphy's Hotel for over 150 years.
The hotel has an illustrious history.
Presidents and legends
have come to stay in
this national landmark.
Partners, Brian, Kevin, and Joel
bought the business nine months ago.
- I own the hotel with my two partners.
I run the dining room.
I'm the dining room manager
Kevin, he's our bar manager.
And Joel, he's our chef.
- Wonderful. Thank you.
- [Gordon's Voiceover]
But it's no one's job
to look after the hotel.
- It's historic
but I think it needs to be maintenanced.
(instrumental music)
- The historic rooms,
I wouldn't even stay in
them and I get a discount.
- That's the air conditioner.
- That's it.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] Behind
the historic main building,
there are 20 so-called modern bedrooms.
- The modern rooms are
maybe modern in the '60s.
- These are modern?
- This looks like my grandma's room.
- Smells like it too.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] Sadly,
the owners are too busy
drinking in the bar to notice
the state of the hotel.
- Oh man.
Owning a bar at 32 years old
can be just a great party
seven days a week.
- [Reveler] Give him some
tongue, lady, some tongue!
- What are you ladies out doing tonight?
- What do you think we're doing?
- Kevin and I, we love women.
And it is a passion.
And we have a lot of
them coming through here.
- [Kevin] Don't act like
you've never done it.
- They're not just all young.
We got the Cougar clans
coming through here.
We're not one to discriminate.
We take customer service
to the next level.
Cheers, boys and girls.
- Put 'em up.
- As a California American male,
we were taught during college,
that it's good, binge drinking is fun.
(revellers cheering)
Why's everybody empty?
And I am the fun captain.
- She tried to roofie me, you see that?
I am the party guy.
I wanna make everyone have fun.
(upbeat pop music)
- Right now, they're just drunk idiots.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] If you
are after a drunken lap dance
you've come to the right place.
If you want a good night's
sleep, you best go elsewhere.
- I'm exhausted.
And I keep hearing these
loud noises outside.
These people that are drunk
and it's driving me crazy.
And I'm gonna go complain.
- Shots! Shots! Shots! (upbeat music)
- What can I do for you?
- I have a room upstairs.
- Sure.
- It's really noisy.
- The saloon is always first.
And then the hotel just
seems like an afterthought.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] This
registered national landmark
is being run ragged by the owners
and is haemorrhaging money.
- If the guys continue to party
and not take things seriously
the hotel's just gonna close down.
- [Gordon's Voiceover] If
I don't do something fast,
this place won't last another
150 days, let alone years.
I think Gordon is going
to say, "Fuck this place."
They're screwed.
(upbeat music)
- I'm on my way to Murphy's
in Northern California.
Now this place is in
among some of the most
stunning vineyards anywhere in the world.
(electric music)
What a beautiful town?
Look how busy this places as well.
Lesser with stunning little tasting rooms.
Now, anyone lucky enough to
be running a small hotel here,
should be sold out every night.
If they're not they must be
doing something seriously wrong.
(rock music)
(piano beat music)
Wow, this really is historic.
Murphy's Hotel has been placed
in the national register
of historic places.
Nice.
Wow.
- Hello.
- How are you?
- I'm good. How are you doing?
- So first name is?
- Conetha.
- Nice to meet you.
- Is it always that busy out there?
- We usually do get pretty
busy on the weekends.
- Incredible.
- We have about 16 tasting rooms
just within walking distance of the hotel.
- I love how historic this place is
but have you not updated
the furniture since 1850?
(instrumental music)
Bloody hell
My God, it's like going
into your grandma's funeral.
My God.
- There definitely is a
difference between historic
and then tacky and old.
What we have is definitely tacky.
- It looks like someone's
died in those chairs.
So you've been here for a long time?
- About a year and a half.
- And what's wrong with the place?
- Well, management, the owners.
The hotel is owned by three guys.
They're in their early 30s.
There's Kevin, Joel, and Brian.
And they really like to use the hotel
as their playground, partying, drinking,
giving lap dances to the bar patrons.
- Lap dance?
- Lap dances
while they're bartending.
The owners if they continue partying
and giving lap dances in the bar
and acting how they've been,
the place is just gonna
keep going downhill.
We put you in the Presidential
Ulysses S. Grant room.
This is the actual bed that
President Grant slept in
except for the mattress.
We did get rid of that.
- What's the glass box for?
- This is our display room.
- Display room?
- Yes. So guests and customers
can come up and take a look.
- When were these last
replaced?
Dreadful.
Oh shit.
- I can't really tell you that.
- It sounds like I'm in a museum.
So am I guest or an exhibit?
- You're a guest.
- Darling,
who are those people there?
- Come on through everybody,
and take a look inside.
- Oh my gosh.
- Ulysses S. Grant room.
- Close the door, honey.
Close the door.
- We're gonna be on display today.
It's usual for the tourists
to come through sometimes.
And if a guest checks in and
they just, for some reason
forget to close their door,
they're gonna have people
crowded around, looking at them.
- They literally come over and they...
Hello.
Hi.
- Well, that's embarrassing.
- It's like a goldfish bowl in here.
- Ladies, thank God, I wasn't
in my underpants. (laughter)
Is that all?
They just come and have a look around.
- Yeah.
We normally get complaints
and there's really no
one that handles that
or takes care of it.
- But there's three owners.
- Yes. A lot of the time they're busy
bartending or drinking or-
- Or lap dancing.
- Or lap dancing, exactly.
Unfortunately.
- I'm gonna unpack.
Can this room be off the tour for a while?
- We'll see what we can do.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
- First impressions.
It maybe steeped in history
but this room smells like
the room's steeped in piss.
(instrumental music)
- Let me put you in the
presidential Ulysses S. Grant room.
- [Gordon Voiceover] I've
just arrived at Murphy's Hotel
near Sacramento, California.
It's like I'm in a museum.
- We're gonna be on display today.
- Hello.
Thank God, I wasn't in my underpants.
- [Gordon Voiceover]
Time for a bite to eat.
I hope the food here is
less stale than my bedroom.
(orchestral music)
- Murphy's Historic Hotel,
employee of the month.
He looks a happy bunny.
How are you?
- Party of one?
No party for one.
Good to see you.
- I'm Brian.
- Is that the same?
Congratulations, employee of the month.
- Thank you.
- Do you get a bonus?
Do you get a nice steak?
Do you get a free dinner?
- I'm one of the only employees
that never made the cut yet.
- I see. You just put yourself in
and what are the owners
gonna say about that?
- I'm one of them.
(instrumental music)
I'm Brian.
- Stop it.
- Yes.
- Come on.
- Hey, the other owners
out there to shot on there.
- You're the owner.
And you made yourself
employee of the month?
- Yeah.
- Are you the man with the g-string?
- The g-string?
- The receptionist told
me, do you do lap dancing?
- Oh no. That would probably be Kevin.
- I see.
- I don't know.
My booty is a little too
big to do the lap dancing.
- I was gonna say.
I can't wait to see that one.
I would love to meet the other two,
the chef and the lap dancer.
Are they around?
- You want me to bring them out?
- Yeah.
- All right.
- Kevin and Joel and I,
we're all equal shareholders
in this business.
But it was my plan to buy the hotel.
- Hello.
- Kevin.
- Kevin. Gordon, good to see you, mate.
And this is?
- Hi, Gordon. Joel.
- Joel. So you're the lap dancer?
- Yes, There's might've
been some lap dancing.
- I'm just dying to find out.
- I'm not a professional.
Maybe once in a while.
I'm a wild one when I start drinking
I get a little stripper action going on
or get a little rowdy
and can be the most fun
that any young adult could ever dream of.
- So obviously the chef?
- Yes.
- Restaurant manager.
And the lap dancer.
- Bar manager.
So who's in charge?
- All three of us.
- No such thing.
So who was runs the hotel?
Who's in charge of
the hotel?
- Hotel manager job
doesn't really entail much.
(instrumental music)
- With three owners,
normally, there's one that takes the reins
and two others silent.
None of you sound and look like an owner.
- Well, Gordon, thinks
we don't look like owners
but what what's the owner look like?
We bought the hotel nine months ago.
- And you guys go back a long way?
- Just met each other 15 years ago.
- I'm confused whether
it's the Three Musketeers
or the Three Stooges.
Anyway, I'm gonna have
a quick bite to eat.
It's been a long journey.
I'm excited to taste the food.
Thank you. Nice to meet you.
- Thank you.
- Gordon's gonna love our food.
Joel works really hard at
everything he puts out,
everything that comes out the
window is a great product.
- I can't believe this
hotel is owned by three guys
with a pink dining room.
- Pink's the new black.
- Well, it's like a girl's bedroom.
(instrumental music)
Ghastly, ghastly.
Any special on today?
- We have a fresh Alaskan halibut
with a...
Now that I'm talking to you,
I've completely forgotten.
No, we had the halibut with a...
Well, this is the first
time I forget specials.
- Don't worry. Why don't
you check with the chef?
- All right. I will.
- You are the restaurant manager, right?
- Yes. And I'm a server too.
- Restaurant management,
employee of the month and owner.
- Yes, all the above.
- Employee of the month,
I'm gonna take that plaque back.
Can't even remember the specials.
- Hey Joel.
I forgot the specials just now.
- Brian just forgot our specials.
I have seen him do that before.
- The special available tonight
is a Macadamian and crusted halibut.
- Let's try the escargot,
entree's the lamb shank.
And then what's the Calamari dore?
What does dore mean?
- So dore, it's just a calamari steak.
- I'll go for that as well.
- Okay.
- Thank you. I'll keep hold of the menu.
Thank you very much.
- You're welcome.
- Once Gordon has a bite of Joel's food,
it's gonna put a smile
on his face, guaranteed.
(instrumental music)
Thank you.
Here we go, sir.
Escargot in a red wine, garlic sauce.
- Red wine garlic.
Wow.
Absolutely rancid.
Have a little taste.
Nothing's hot.
Yeah. Strange taste.
- That's the first,
actually the first time
in the history that
I've eaten the escargot.
- Oh really?
- And I'm gonna say that I
don't like it in any way.
- No.
- The escargot tasted like a dirty
funky disgusting flip-flop,
if you sauteed a flip-flop.
I think that would be a
good good way describing it.
- That was fucking disgusting.
- I wanna run home and get
some mouthwash for sure.
- You do whatever you need to do.
- All right.
- 'Cause they stink.
(instrumental music)
- Some water for you?
- Please.
- Do you have any little samples
of wine flight, anything original?
- We've talked about that.
But we have not implemented it.
- So you've been talking
about it for nine months
but you haven't actually done it yet.
No one's even bothered the wine flights
or trying to get it together.
So you've got this place almost a year
and you haven't implemented something
that this town thrives on?
- Correct.
- Have you tasted this escargot?
- The escargot? Not really.
Have you eaten, I mean,
you eat here, right?
- Not very often.
- And when was the last
time you guys sat down
and had dinner in the restaurant?
- We've never sat down with
all three of us together.
- Strange, stranger.
I'm getting slightly nervous
that nothing actually gets done here.
Anyway, I'm living in hope.
May I have some more bread?
- For sure.
- I got lamb shank coming right out, bruh.
- Oh my God.
(instrumental music)
Holy crap. What is that?
- This is our lamb shank.
- That's a weird-looking lamb shank.
Visually, it looks like
the biggest plate up puke.
- I've never personally had
lamb shank ever in here.
I do not like lamb.
- You're the restaurant manager.
You don't like lamb.
You don't eat escargot.
- I'm the restaurant manager,
but I'm not the chef.
- I think I would just
call that a dog's dinner.
What a mess?
- I do apologise again.
- I'm totally embarrassed that
our food is S quality.
I've always thought it was better.
- Hey Joel.
- Yeah.
- The lamb shank,
he mentioned that the vegetable gravy goo
was a little too much.
- Okay.
- I'm gonna run this out.
(instrumental music)
- So fine dining;
frozen,
inedible,
nasty,
excrement.
I'm amazed.
What's this one?
- This is the calamari doré steak.
- That's not garlic in there again, is it?
- There is a garlic in there again.
- Jesus.
- It's just how that dish is prepared.
- Everything's just laced with garlic.
Please
be my guest.
What is it trying to be,
a sponge?
- I'm embarrassed.
I'm chewing on it, going,
"I just want to spit
this shit out right now."
Like, "This is terrible."
So that's the first bite
I've ever taken of that.
- You know this stuff's
on the menu, right?
You're aware of it?
This is your hotel, yes?
- Yes, it is.
- I'm not being punked here
that you guys are the owners.
- We are the owners.
- The owners haven't sent
their sons in to take the heat.
- Nope.
- No, you definitely are the owners.
- This is us.
(instrumental music)
- How do these Three
Stooges qualify to run
an historic hotel like this?
(instrumental music)
- [Gordon's Voiceover] If
they can't even get the food
and wine right, how are they
gonna improve the hotel?
I feel like I'm being looked
after by college kids.
- Do they want me to come out or?
- It'd probably be good.
Yeah, come on out.
(instrumental music)
- So are we very impressed?
- No, far from impressed.
Have you ever actually stood back
and looked at that lamb shank as a dish
and it's most horrendous, the most drabby,
disgusting looking fucking lamb shank.
Have you given up?
- Nope.
- No, no way. We just started.
We're not giving up yet.
- You just started?
- Yeah.
- Have you ever just
walked in from outside,
checked in, went up to the rooms?
- No.
- You've never done that.
- Never have.
- Have you ever done that?
- No, sir.
- I have not.
- Oh my God.
What have you improved on since
you bought it, truthfully?
- I make people laugh and smile every day.
- Seriously.
What have you changed?
- Weekends, we serve breakfast all day.
- What have you changed, menu-wise menu?
- Menu... uh.
Fucking hell.
(instrumental music)
I got one, two, three,
three idiots that
haven't changed anything.
You don't stay here.
You don't eat together.
You don't criticise the food.
Shit reception,
shit room,
shit food,
and three clueless owners.
(intense instrumental music)
Owners?
My fucking ass.
(dramatic music)
(instrumental music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] I'm
staying at Murphy's Hotel
in Northern California.
And after being put on
display for gawking tourists
and eating an atrocious lunch.
- I think I would just
call that a dog's dinner,
what a mess.
- [Gordon Voiceover] I need to see
the three nitwit owners in action.
Word has got out that I'm in Murphy's
and the hotel and restaurant
are full of people.
I feel sorry for all of them.
- Can we get something else?
- What's wrong?
- The ribs are a little too charcoal.
- This is just like vinegar.
- The chicken was really dry.
- [Gordon Voiceover] Joel
is running the kitchen.
- Ribs are burned.
Chicken's burned.
- [Gordon Voiceover] Kevin
is getting busy in the bar.
And Brian is overseeing the dining room.
- There should be geer, nice geer cheese.
- Geer?
- Isn't it geer cheese?
- Gruyere.
- Gruyere, I mean.
(instrumental music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] So
guests trying to check in
are left to fend for themselves.
(instrumental music)
- Do we ask you to check in for the room?
(bar room chatter)
- Is everything okay?
- We went up to the front desk
and there was nobody there.
So we're trying to check in the hotel.
- There's one of the owners.
Guests have arrived to check in.
You get Brian urgently or Kevin.
- What about it?
- About our guests checking in.
- Guests checking in, I can do that.
- Would you, please?
I'm sorry.
- Thank you.
- Excuse me.
You shouldn't have to come
looking for us in the bar.
So that's what happens
when guests come in late?
They go to the bar looking for...
- Yes, that is how we do it.
- Have you ever done that?
Checked in and then found
the reception closed
and went to the bar looking for a key?
- No, I've actually
always stayed at hotels
probably only a matter of 20
times my whole entire life.
- Wow. And you're a hotel owner?
- Yeah.
- So how come you guys
don't have anybody up here?
- We've got bartenders or servers like me
sometimes taking care of it.
- Wow.
- Just sign the top there, please.
- [Gordon Voiceover] Once
guests get to the rooms,
they're in for another
unpleasant surprise.
(upbeat music)
- (indistinct)
- But they have all the
bar people out there.
Let's see if it still sounds
like the French Quarter out here?
(upbeat music)
Let's wait for the drunkards to go home
before we open that up.
(revellers cheering)
- It's very noisy in there
from the bar in the street.
(instrumental music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] The
owners ignorance is evident
in everything I've seen so far.
I'm curious to see what it's like
in the parts I haven't seen
like the walk-in fridge.
(instrumental music)
- What the fuck are those?
Oof.
Grilled pork, cooked chicken
sat next to each other.
Fucking disgusting.
I wish I'd seen this
before I had my lunch.
Fine dining, it's not.
Look at that bucket.
Look at the mould growing on there.
Dirty fuckers.
Bloody hell.
There's mould at the sides too.
Oh,
Jesus Christ, look at the
fucking mould on that.
This is absolutely disgusting.
Bollocks.
(instrumental music)
So the walk-in, how often
is that fridge cleaned out?
- Twice a week.
- Twice a week?
- Yes.
- Marked,
everything out?
- Yes.
- Come with me, all of
you, especially the owners.
- Sounds good.
- Sounds good? Really? Fucking no.
- Oh wow.
Oh wow.
- Fucking mouldy tortillas.
There should not be fucking
any mouldy fucking food.
It's looking horrible.
- And when was this made?
- Last Saturday.
Three days ago.
- Can you just smell that?
- I need to toss it out.
I know that.
- And this terrible.
You should be fucking ashamed.
- Okay.
- Okay? No, it's not okay.
What is that?
- Black mould.
What's it supposed to be?
- Thai chilli marinade.
- That chilli marinade.
- But I don't if it's
been used in a while.
- The sauces was from a
chef that had been there
in 2006 or seven or something.
- This is exactly the same way
you run this fucking hotel,
you don't give a shit.
- I give a shit.
I give a shit.
- If this is your dream
of running a hotel,
then how about manning up
and look like fucking owners.
- We are.
This is fucking unacceptable.
And it's not gonna happen anymore.
- Have you checked out?
Because you should do
the honourable thing.
Say to these two, fuck it, "I'm out."
- He has not checked out.
- Can you let him talk?
- I have not checked out
and I obviously I need
to pay more attention
and do better at my job.
- How any of you can
run a fucking business?
Do you ever see three CEOs,
three fucking general managers,
three executive chefs?
It's like dumb, dumber and dumbest!
(dramatic music)
(instrumental music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] Since
my arrival in Murphy's Hotel
in Northern California-
- You should be fucking ashamed.
- [Gordon Voiceover] -I've been appalled
by the three clueless owners.
- It's like dumb, dumber and dumbest.
Are you guys really the fucking owners?
- True story.
- Fuck off.
(soft instrumental music)
Unbelievable.
Three young idiots that are
playing at running a hotel.
And not one of them
have got a fucking clue.
(upbeat music)
- I'm mad at Joel.
I'm a fucking owner.
I don't fucking wanna clean.
I've been here 12 hours,
it's unacceptable.
I do wanna prove Gordon Ramsey wrong
about me being a fucking
idiot, fucking dumb and dumber,
fucking scoundrel, wanker,
fucking whatever British
fucking terminology
that fucking wanker has to say
across from the different pond guy.
But I do respect him.
Time to get a drink.
(upbeat music) (bar chatter)
- Mighty B!
Be Mighty.
- Hey guys.
What's up, brother?
- Are you gonna get a shot?
- You guys all know I like to party
But sorry, I need to wind down.
I'm gonna, I'm going to go play
poker in Reno later tonight.
And I'm not gonna sleep.
- Listen to that fucking music.
How on earth is anyone gonna ever get
to sleep in this hotel?
Jesus Christ.
That's crazy.
- You know what?
Frog's Asses for everyone
in this building,
right here, right now.
(revellers applauding)
(instrumental music) (bar chatter)
- How annoying is this?
This doesn't make sense.
(revellers applauding)
- Anyone in here, fuckin' Frog's Ass!
(upbeat music) (revellers cheering)
- Unreal.
There's gotta be a quieter room somewhere.
(indistinct)
(instrumental music)
(revellers applauding)
- Pull it up.
You got it.
- [Reveler] Mighty B!
Let's go. (revellers applauding)
(bar room chatter)
- Rip it off.
Get it, come on.
You wanna see the tattoo?
(revellers applauding)
- One nation, motherfucker.
- Got two seconds, please?
- Oh fuck, here we go.
- Hey, I have a walk-in to clean.
I've been here.
I wanna go get that cleaning
because it's number one right now.
- Is this a joke?
- Is this is a joke?
They're partying and I'm upset.
And we're just, I don't
know they're partying.
- What's happened to your shirt?
Have you been fighting?
- They wanted to see it.
And I was upset earlier
and I'm upset at Joel.
I'm upset at everything that's
going on and I want it...
I'm just upset.
- How about thinking for two
minutes about your guests.
- I wanna go...
I'm gonna go clean the walk-in.
- You just walk off like that?
- You know what?
I'm gonna go clean the
walk-in because you know why?
- Why are you acting like a fucking jerk?
- Because I'm upset.
That was fucking unacceptable in there.
- What was unacceptable?
- The fucking walk-in with
the fucking with black mole.
- So why don't you do something about it?
- I was... (mumbling)
(dramatic music)
(upbeat music) (bar chatter)
- I'm gonna go clean the walk-in.
- You just walk off by that?
- You know what?
I'm gonna go clean the walk-in.
You know why?
- Why are you acting like a fucking jerk?
- [Gordon Voiceover]
Brian is coming undone
and is drinking on the job.
I'm done trying to get
through to him today.
- I'm upset.
That was fucking unacceptable in there.
- What was unacceptable?
- The fucking walk-in.
- You're drunk.
Go home.
- All right.
I wanna go clean the walk-in now too.
(upbeat music)
I'm gonna do it in a t-shirt.
- Jesus Christ.
- [Gordon Voiceover]
I've been told the hotel
offers modern rooms further from the bar.
So I've asked to be put in one
so I can get away from all this madness.
- Looks like it's not
quiet in here either.
- [Gordon Voiceover] And
they call these modern rooms.
It looks like my grandma's
house from the 1950s.
Look at this wallpaper,
hideous.
- What sort of hotel is this
when you can't get a good night's sleep?
(upbeat music)
This was supposed to be quieter down here.
(instrumental music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] What
an awful night's sleep.
(instrumental music)
- Fucking shower is hideous.
The water's freezing.
This place stinks.
Modern room, my ass.
- [Gordon Voiceover]
This place is such a mess
from the awful deco,
to the dreadful food,
to the drunken partying all night long.
I need to get the whole team together
and find out how it's
gotten into this state.
- Morning, guys.
- Good morning.
- Morning.
Could I ask that we have a meeting
with the team?
- Cool.
(instrumental music)
- Man, that was a bad night's sleep.
The noise over here was insane.
I came by downstairs last night
and Brian's ripping his shirt up,
shouting, screaming about,
"Hey, shots all on me."
Is that normal?
Is that really how these managers operate?
- When they're off duty,
they come behind the bar
turn up the juke box when
I've already turned it down,
pour themselves drinks.
- It's their personal frat house.
- How does that make you feel?
Your employees are concerned
that you're drunk in the bar.
- When do I treat you all fucking badly?
- What?
- When it comes to scheduling
how many days that you
guys have asked off for
that you didn't get off?
- It's not what we're asking.
If you're gonna run a hotel,
it's not about having a fucking party.
It's about levels of discipline.
- Well, just so you know,
it's not happening any more.
But I'm not gonna be as
happy sometimes for you guys.
- You are as good as your team.
They represent you.
And based on what I've seen,
I don't think you represent them properly.
You go first, and tell these owners
what they need to hear.
- We lose a lot of
reservations when we don't
have somebody to answer to phone.
When we leave the front desk,
we put the phone in the bar.
- After 8:00 PM, we are the front desk.
We are the bartenders.
- I saw that last night.
- They don't answer the phone
because they don't hear it.
We need online booking.
- You know what that takes
away, online bookings?
As front desk girls you know.
- We're talking about
getting rid of the front desk
and putting a computer there
and we don't have a person
there, self check-in.
- That's fine.
- So how do you feel about that?
- So they complain and
you threaten to fire them?
- Yup.
- No, that's not what it is.
- Yes it is.
You just totally attacked me.
- I'm afraid to express my feelings.
I'm afraid I'm gonna get fired.
- Really?
- Nobody's threatened you with their job.
- Nobody has.
- You never threatened me by being fired?
- I have before.
- Were you drunk?
- Yes.
- You were drunk?
- Mm-hmm.
So that's the message I'm trying to get
through to your thick skulls.
You're threatening
staff whilst inebriated.
This is crazy.
People who deserve to be fired
are these three standing here.
There's no structure.
Somebody needs to step
up and run the business
and everyone else follows suit.
You need one general manager.
That's the issue.
You need to be a leader from the top.
That's one person.
There can be 25 owners.
But there needs to be one general manager.
If something doesn't change
you guys are gonna lose this place.
(upbeat music)
Which one of you is capable of stepping up
and running this business?
(dramatic music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] I'm at Murphy's Hotel
in Northern California.
- You're the owner.
And you made yourself
employee of the month.
- Yeah.
- [Gordon Voiceover] The place is a mess
because these three owners
behave like frat boys.
- Cheers, boys and girls.
- [Gordon Voiceover] And
none of them is a leader.
- You checked out.
- [Gordon Voiceover]
So the staff don't know
which way to turn.
- I'm afraid to express my feelings.
I'm afraid I'm gonna get fired.
- [Gordon Voiceover]
Things have got to change.
- There needs to be one general manager.
Somebody needs to take charge.
(upbeat music)
- I'm gonna take charge.
I'm gonna run the business.
I'm gonna lead it.
Out of us three, it's
gonna be me, guaranteed.
- If you're gonna run the
hotel, you run the hotel.
- Yup, 100%
- So Kevin and Joel, are you
willing to give him the support
and the autonomy to
actually run this place?
- Yes.
- Brian, it's your responsibility
now to general manage
and absolutely tow the line.
But there are three rules.
Rule number one, stop
drinking on the floor.
- Gotcha.
- Rule number two, you have
to stop working the floor.
And rule number three, you
have to fucking grow some,
fast.
- Brian does know the most
out of the three of them.
So I really do think if he
could stop his partying ways,
he can really do it.
- Trust me.
If you don't grow up now, you never will.
- I got it.
- It's a hotel, not a frat house.
- I'm not gonna be drinking
and I'm gonna be owner.
- Thank God for that.
- Thank you.
- I'm going to change.
- I'm gonna be more of an owner
and not a friend/coworker.
I know you're gonna see a different Brian.
(instrumental music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] The
future of this historic
national landmark is now in Brian's hands.
And I need to know that he
cares enough to be responsible.
- You are young,
ambitious, slightly naive.
You're going at it in
totally the wrong way.
You're on the verge of
losing this business.
- Hopefully not.
- And how would you feel
if you lost the business?
- It would be horrible.
It would be horrible
because that's already
three years of 60 hour weeks.
It's horrible.
- I'm here to help
but I want you to understand
the mess you're in.
It's not good.
- All right.
- Do you understand?
- I do.
- Deep down inside, there's
no two ways about it.
You're a fun guy.
You have a lot to offer.
But just stop being irresponsible.
- I will.
- And just man up.
- Yeah, for sure.
- And you can do it.
- Okay.
- I wanna make this work.
(soft instrumental music)
- From today on it's gonna
be a changed business,
all right?
- Okay.
Good to see that smile back of your face.
Thank you.
I'll see you later.
- From this day forward, I'm a changed man
and the business is going to
reflect all those changes.
- [Gordon Voiceover] With
Brian, ready to take charge
as general manager, my
design team has worked
all night to modernise Murphy's Hotel.
And now it's time to
reveal the new look hotel
to Brian and his team.
(instrumental music)
- Brian, how are you, sir?
- Gordon, good. How you doing?
- You look very smart.
You're good?
- You're doing good?
- Ladies, how are we?
- I'm great.
- Excited.
- Welcome everyone, to
the new and improved
Murphy's historic hotel.
Are you ready?
- Yes.
- Let's do this.
(upbeat music)
- Welcome to the new lobby.
- No way, this is awesome.
Exactly how it should be.
(talking all at once)
- [Gordon Voiceover]
When I first I walked in,
I was disappointed.
It was just a big anticlimax.
- You have a nice warm, modern
feel when you walk in.
Your guests will arrive and feel welcomed.
Take a seat.
- Like the visual?
- Yes.
Amazing.
Brian, what'd you think?
- Beautiful. Absolutely beautiful.
Welcoming.
- The colours, the contrast,
the warmth, perfect.
What Gordon has done with
the lobby is beautiful.
Now that blue, it's so warm.
It's so welcoming.
It's awesome.
- This is an historic hotel.
Your ex president stayed here.
That doesn't happen that often in hotels.
- Thank you very much.
- You happy?
- Thank you, bro.
- Hold on, there's more.
- There's more?
- From six o'clock this morning,
you're now live with online bookings.
(staff applauding)
They don't go anywhere near the bar.
You know what time they're coming.
And
you are now
in the 21st century.
Are you ready to see
the presidential suites?
Yeah?
Come and see my room.
Let's go.
(orchestral music)
I think you'll love it.
Let's go.
Jump in.
- Oh my gosh.
It's awesome.
(all talking at once)
- This one's being freshened up.
This one's been spruced up.
You need that vibrance
The minute you walk into a room.
You wanna feel, "Wow, I'm
stepping into history,
"but I also want some comfort."
- This is fit for a president.
Our president now could stay here.
Obama would be the okay to stay here now.
- It still feels historic,
but it's a bedroom, not a museum.
- Exactly.
- So make sure that when
your guests are checked in
their bedrooms are off the tour.
- Did you put new robes?
Is there something on
here to make it softer?
- That's what lined in cushion
that makes the difference.
(talking at once)
- For me, the big problem
wasn't the linens.
It was the noise.
- We've come up with a
solution to narrow that down.
Last call, midnight.
- Well, stick to those
times of your bar closing
because the damage you can do
to your reputation is devastating.
- We're gonna follow through
and make sure that our
customers in the hotel
are as happy as our customers in the bar
and our customers in the restaurant.
- So are you ready see the rooms outside
that you told me were modern?
(laughter)
Let me show you what modern is.
You ready?
(instrumental music)
- I love this one.
- Oh my gosh! I love this one.
- No way.
- Look at the colour.
(all talking at once)
- You can see why I got upset.
The owner's done nothing in nine months.
We've done all this in fucking 24 hours.
(laughter)
- Blown away.
I can't believe the
creativity that's been put
into this place in the last few days.
- Joel, what do you think?
- Last word is inspired.
Very inspiring.
- Listen, you should never,
ever, ever be afraid of change.
You've got to keep on going, every time.
Brian, what do you think?
What's going through your mind?
I have never heard you so quiet.
- Breathtaking
I don't really know what to say
because it's beautiful.
Is there something-
- It's beautiful.
This is perfect.
With this kick in the ass,
we're gonna go forward, full throttle
and make changes that no
one's ever seen before.
- You're ready to see the dining room?
- [All] Yes.
- This one I love.
- The dining room also.
Where do you stop, buddy?
- Look at the colours, come in.
Beautiful.
Where's the pink?
- Oh my God.
- Yeah.
- Gone are those horrendous pink walls.
A stunning beautiful colour
on the walls that just pop.
And there's one more thing,
this bit you're gonna love.
It's a surprise
that's gonna completely
change your business.
You ready for this?
- Yes, let's see it.
(dramatic music)
(upbeat music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] I've just revealed
the stunning new improvements
to the historic Murphy's Hotel.
- Oh my God.
- Our president now could stay here.
- [Gordon Voiceover] And now,
there's one more addition
that will ensure this hotel
thrives in the future.
- You are in the heart of some
of the most sought after
wineries anywhere in the world.
And there's a massive market
that you have been missing out on.
And here's why.
Every famous winery has
a lovely tasting room
on this main street.
At five o'clock, they close.
Here, you're now gonna
pick up that business.
This is a menu designed to
pair with great local wines.
- Oh wow, look at this.
- This is incredible.
- Start off with that lovely cheese plate.
The chicken liver crostini
paired with a stunning chilled Rose.
And then this wonderful
local ricotta dip.
You now have a perfect menu.
When those tasting rooms
close at five o'clock,
you pick it up and you continue it.
And where are they gonna stay tonight?
- [All] Here.
- That's right.
After dinner.
I want you to dig in and sample.
- The wine tasting menu is awesome.
The overall experience to any guest
that walks through our door now,
I believe is gonna be better than ever.
- I like the pairing of the ricotta
and the wine that it goes with.
There's a very nice, fresh dish.
- There's no going back.
- No.
- We're only going up now.
- Oh, that's nice.
This is so phenomenal.
This is gonna put us on the map,
off the charts, reservations off the hook.
- Thank you, chef.
- Thank you.
As well as a wine pairing menu,
I've changed the entire
menu in the dining room.
Let me show you one of
my favourite dishes.
- I'm very excited about the new menu.
- I know where I'm eating every night.
- Oh my God.
- Fresh baked lemon meringue pie.
- Oh my goodness, look at that thing.
- And the real the inspiration
behind this was Brian's hair.
(laughter)
- And where's Bart Simpson?
- This new menu is gonna touch a business
a clientele that we've never
had at the Murphy's Hotel.
And I know personally, I can't
wait to eat there more often.
- [Gordon Voiceover] With
warm and fresh rooms,
and the new wine tasting menu,
my only concern is whether Brian
can stay focused on the guest experience.
- Now, listen every night from now on
in this hotel, is a big night.
Let me tell you.
And it's not just about the bar,
but the restaurant and the rooms.
Push those tasting menus in our bar.
GM, are you ready?
- We're ready.
- If there's one thing you do not need
as a general manager is an apron.
Get that off.
- All right. (laughter)
- Good luck, guys.
- [All] Thank you.
- Are we ready?
- Yeah.
- Let's do this.
- Let's go, guys.
(staff applauding)
(instrumental music)
- Hello. How are you doing?
- Good, how are you.
- [Gordon Voiceover]
With extended front desk
operating hours, guests
can easily check in
and feel welcome in the new lobby.
(soft instrumental music)
- Wow, looks nice.
- I'll bet it'd be a
comfortable sleep tonight.
- It's gonna be fun.
- [Gordon Voiceover] And they're enjoying
the renovated and peaceful rooms.
- I wish this was my bedroom.
- This Newsome Harlow.
- [Gordon Voiceover] And the
wine tasting menu is a hit.
- That food looks lovely.
Guys, they're loving
the food. Keep it going.
- Thank you.
- Yes. Well done.
And good luck.
When I first arrived,
you saw three young guys
playing at running a bar
and completely forgetting
that they were actually
in charge of a hotel.
But
Brian stepped up and has taken
that general manager role,
which is great news.
I'm hoping now that they get
that party mode out of mind
and focus on the potential
of what this business can bring them.
(instrumental music)
Great job.
You performed like owners tonight.
You sound like owners
and this place is rocking.
The atmosphere in the bar is controlled.
The dining room is having fun.
The patio is full.
The wine tasting menu is flying out.
Keep up the good work.
- Gordon, he really has opened my eyes
and showed me that we need to take
more of a leadership role as an owner.
- I'm taking you out to
the employee of the month.
- I know.
- Choose one together.
- Yes, we will.
- On a monthly basis.
Have your input, throw into the pot.
- I believe Gordon has saved this place
by putting wind in our sails again.
We truly did need a kick in the ass
because we were playing
around a little too much.
- General manager, remember
actions speak louder than words.
- Next day, you'll hear
great things, I guarantee.
- Gordon is amazing.
He's a magician.
And I think that he came through
and he transformed the hotel
into this wonderful masterpiece.
And I'm so thankful that he
came through and helped us.
- What a gorgeous place.
Damn,
I never did get to see Kevin
lap dance. (Gordon laughs)
(instrumental music)
- [Gordon Voiceover] Since my visit
to the historic Murphy's hotel,
the owners have finally become owners.
Joel is keeping the kitchen
and the walk-in extra clean
and he has new pride in his work.
- I got a well done going right there.
- You can go peek at
the upstairs bathrooms,
one's down the hall, showers,
both restrooms upstairs.
You stay there.
I'm good right here.
- [Gordon Voiceover] Brian is
stepping up as general manager
focusing his efforts on the hotel.
- Brian is definitely capable
of being the general manager.
Gordon has completely changed everything.
- Gordon brought the
historic hotel back to life.
(instrumental music)